um so these protocol discussions are where we have uh go over caps which are
where we have uh go over caps which are core advancement proposals these are
core advancement proposals these are basically specifications for how to
basically specifications for how to update Stellar core and the Stellar
update Stellar core and the Stellar protocol in order to implement new
protocol in order to implement new features and make major changes
features and make major changes um any cap actually goes through a
um any cap actually goes through a process where it's drafted it's
process where it's drafted it's discussed in open on the Stellar Dev
discussed in open on the Stellar Dev mailing list which you can join and then
mailing list which you can join and then eventually it's brought to this meeting
eventually it's brought to this meeting when it's time for a synchronous
when it's time for a synchronous discussion all caps go through a review
discussion all caps go through a review process get vetted and eventually before
process get vetted and eventually before they're approved there there's
they're approved there there's a pretty lengthy engagement with the the
a pretty lengthy engagement with the the greater Stellar ecosystem
greater Stellar ecosystem uh finally when they are approved they
uh finally when they are approved they actually get bundled up into a new major
actually get bundled up into a new major protocol release and before that
protocol release and before that protocol release actually hits the
protocol release actually hits the network goes live on the network
network goes live on the network validators have to agree to accept that
validators have to agree to accept that change so there is also a validator
change so there is also a validator governance
governance um step that's required before the
um step that's required before the actual turning on of a new feature on
actual turning on of a new feature on Stellar
Stellar um So lately we have not had that many
um So lately we have not had that many protocol meetings and that's because
protocol meetings and that's because we've been I'm just gonna see if I can
we've been I'm just gonna see if I can invite some people up to speak um
invite some people up to speak um uh and that is because uh the the Caps
uh and that is because uh the the Caps that we've been working on relate to
that we've been working on relate to sorobon which is the uh smart contracts
sorobon which is the uh smart contracts platform that we're building that will
platform that we're building that will bring smart contracts to stellar and a
bring smart contracts to stellar and a lot of work has been done on the
lot of work has been done on the implementation side right so earlier
implementation side right so earlier this year we were talking through about
this year we were talking through about eight caps and for now we've sort of
eight caps and for now we've sort of worked on implementation of those we
worked on implementation of those we have launched them on the futurenet so
have launched them on the futurenet so if you're listening to this and you want
if you're listening to this and you want to experiment with saurabhan you can on
to experiment with saurabhan you can on a Dev Network a Dev test Network that
a Dev Network a Dev test Network that exists right now
exists right now um but today we do have a discussion
um but today we do have a discussion that we want to have around a cap which
that we want to have around a cap which hit the mailing list there were some
hit the mailing list there were some changes that hit the mailing list
changes that hit the mailing list earlier uh actually I think yesterday
earlier uh actually I think yesterday and so that cap is capped 46-06 smart
and so that cap is capped 46-06 smart contract standardized asset there's a
contract standardized asset there's a link to the actual cap in the show notes
link to the actual cap in the show notes or in the event description so if you
or in the event description so if you want to follow this discussion which
want to follow this discussion which will be technical I definitely advise
will be technical I definitely advise reading the cap we're going to get into
reading the cap we're going to get into the details today
the details today and so I is there anyone else who needs
and so I is there anyone else who needs to be brought up to the stage I guess we
to be brought up to the stage I guess we can go ahead and start and we can bring
can go ahead and start and we can bring people on stage as necessary I think to
people on stage as necessary I think to start with cap 4606
start with cap 4606 um so Darth do you want to just start
um so Darth do you want to just start out by talking a little bit about the
out by talking a little bit about the cap by walking through the changes and
cap by walking through the changes and uh just sort of set up the discussion
uh just sort of set up the discussion for the rest of the meeting
for the rest of the meeting yeah I can do that so uh this cap is
yeah I can do that so uh this cap is about a standardized token contract uh
about a standardized token contract uh on sorbon or what we call now the uh the
on sorbon or what we call now the uh the built-in token contract
built-in token contract um and you know we already have an
um and you know we already have an initial implementation of this that
initial implementation of this that people are using on feature net and this
people are using on feature net and this cap has been out for a while but I'll go
cap has been out for a while but I'll go over the recent changes at a high level
over the recent changes at a high level uh so the most significant one is that
uh so the most significant one is that the token balances have been updated
the token balances have been updated from
from uh bigint to uh u128 uh and again these
uh bigint to uh u128 uh and again these are just updates of the cap not the
are just updates of the cap not the actual implementation yet
actual implementation yet um approve the approved function was
um approve the approved function was replaced with increased allowance and
replaced with increased allowance and decreased allowance methods uh there are
decreased allowance methods uh there are some naming changes to make sore Bond
some naming changes to make sore Bond terminology match up with Stellar
terminology match up with Stellar classic like burn was uh change the
classic like burn was uh change the cloud back for use of the authorize
cloud back for use of the authorize unfreeze to authorize
unfreeze to authorize um we allow the admin to disable
um we allow the admin to disable clawback along with rules on how it's
clawback along with rules on how it's set for wrapped assets
set for wrapped assets and then there's this wasn't explicitly
and then there's this wasn't explicitly out of the cap it was in the mailing
out of the cap it was in the mailing list uh discussions around how auth
list uh discussions around how auth required should be handled and I had two
required should be handled and I had two ideas there that we can discuss
ideas there that we can discuss um and it sounds like author bride is
um and it sounds like author bride is something that we will need to handle
something that we will need to handle um yeah so does anyone have any
um yeah so does anyone have any questions
Russians comments yeah
yeah it started something simple uh the
it started something simple uh the naming conventions I understand they
naming conventions I understand they align with uh with Stellar classic do
align with uh with Stellar classic do they also align with
they also align with um the you know the greater kind of like
um the you know the greater kind of like cryptocurrency ecosystem and equivalent
cryptocurrency ecosystem and equivalent contracts on say
contracts on say um ethereum
um ethereum so the burn to clavac the uh that that
so the burn to clavac the uh that that actually matches up with uh erc20 for
actually matches up with uh erc20 for example just burn on the open Zeppelin
example just burn on the open Zeppelin erc20
erc20 standard actually refers to a user
standard actually refers to a user burning their own balance which is not
burning their own balance which is not what burn does it does in the total
what burn does it does in the total contract today in the sermon tone
contract today in the sermon tone contract that matches clawback
contract that matches clawback uh for freeze unfreeze
uh for freeze unfreeze um
um uh it
uh it this is a question we had it was like I
this is a question we had it was like I I switched it to authorized the author
I switched it to authorized the author just because we want to be we want
just because we want to be we want clawback to be able to be used on Frozen
clawback to be able to be used on Frozen balances and we didn't want someone to
balances and we didn't want someone to make the assumption that a you know a
make the assumption that a you know a frozen balance can change because it can
frozen balance can change because it can through callback
through callback um
um I believe uh on on the ethereum side
I believe uh on on the ethereum side it's actually called I think it's blue
it's actually called I think it's blue it's not possible and you unpause it uh
it's not possible and you unpause it uh so it's a little different from that uh
so it's a little different from that uh do you have concerns over those
do you have concerns over those differences
um yeah I think the the the blacklistable contracts that for
the the blacklistable contracts that for example uscc adheres to actually use as
example uscc adheres to actually use as a completely different language which is
a completely different language which is uh blacklisting
uh blacklisting um which yeah its own uh issues
um which yeah its own uh issues yeah that's unique to usdc right that's
yeah that's unique to usdc right that's not even you know
not even you know like like a common erc20 implementation
like like a common erc20 implementation uh that's a good question I haven't
uh that's a good question I haven't looked at others
looked at others I'll uh I'll take a look at that
okay yeah I definitely think that it makes sense to just like choose
makes sense to just like choose something and then go with it uh but
something and then go with it uh but maybe just like survey the ecosystem and
maybe just like survey the ecosystem and and make sure that there are no
and make sure that there are no standards that were
standards that were um
um overlooking it doesn't look like we have
overlooking it doesn't look like we have okay
um you mentioned some um the the issue with auth required and
um the the issue with auth required and potential Solutions can you uh talk a
potential Solutions can you uh talk a bit about
bit about um a what the issue is uh to reiterate
um a what the issue is uh to reiterate that and uh what are some potential
that and uh what are some potential Solutions
Solutions yeah so currently uh on solar classic if
yeah so currently uh on solar classic if the issuer has uh has the auth required
the issuer has uh has the auth required flag set any new trust line will be
flag set any new trust line will be deauthorized by default
deauthorized by default uh and the reason for this is that you
uh and the reason for this is that you know the issuer may want to verify the
know the issuer may want to verify the the owner of the trust line to make sure
the owner of the trust line to make sure that you know they can go they go
that you know they can go they go through kyc and you know you go through
through kyc and you know you go through you pass whatever regulations that they
you pass whatever regulations that they need to and then you enable the the
need to and then you enable the the trust line and they can do what they
trust line and they can do what they want uh that concept does not exist at
want uh that concept does not exist at the moment in the built-in token
the moment in the built-in token contract so if you've sent to a New
contract so if you've sent to a New Balance uh if you send an asset that is
Balance uh if you send an asset that is author card on the classic side that's
author card on the classic side that's wrapped and so our body you send it to a
wrapped and so our body you send it to a new balance that this new entity can
new balance that this new entity can receive it and this breaks the you know
receive it and this breaks the you know the author required semantics so the one
the author required semantics so the one idea I had was that in uh in the Tome
idea I had was that in uh in the Tome contract
contract there are no balances by default in the
there are no balances by default in the beginning
beginning and they only exist once they are you
and they only exist once they are you know once it's actually written uh into
know once it's actually written uh into a ledger entry
a ledger entry and uh so you can kind of you can treat
and uh so you can kind of you can treat that right as
that right as the initialization of the balance
the initialization of the balance my idea was to tie like when you do that
my idea was to tie like when you do that new like the when you create this New
new like the when you create this New Balance you check the issuer
Balance you check the issuer and if it does exist then you block it
and if it does exist then you block it and you require the issue explicitly
and you require the issue explicitly proves that trust all right it's not
proves that trust all right it's not that trust line approves that balance or
that trust line approves that balance or that identifier before it's created
that identifier before it's created um there are some issues around this
um there are some issues around this related to
related to um how you would actually indicate that
um how you would actually indicate that it's authorized but this is like that's
it's authorized but this is like that's that's the best idea I have so far the
that's the best idea I have so far the other one is to just not allow it's just
other one is to just not allow it's just disable add-on controls or not admin
disable add-on controls or not admin controls on sarban contract
controls on sarban contract uh for wrapped assets that that have uh
uh for wrapped assets that that have uh auth required set but this makes it much
auth required set but this makes it much more difficult for uh author guard
more difficult for uh author guard assets to be used on seller I'm sorry
assets to be used on seller I'm sorry but I'm sorry
there's also an uh maybe an ax-like approach in which we just don't enable
approach in which we just don't enable sorobond
sorobond uh like importing exporting at all to
uh like importing exporting at all to off acquired assets
off acquired assets that's true but I
that's true but I Jake has mentioned that uh there are
Jake has mentioned that uh there are some partners that are off the choir
some partners that are off the choir that want to participate in sorbon so
that want to participate in sorbon so that wouldn't be possible in that case
that wouldn't be possible in that case uh it depend you know it depends on what
uh it depend you know it depends on what we what we want to do with those assets
are there drawbacks to the first approach that you outlined
uh it it adds it just adds some complexity uh
it adds it just adds some complexity uh like for example how do you store this I
like for example how do you store this I made this change in the cap but it
made this change in the cap but it actually isn't ideal where before we had
actually isn't ideal where before we had this a flag for when things are frozen
this a flag for when things are frozen which is not the normal case uh so
which is not the normal case uh so if you never freeze the balance in the
if you never freeze the balance in the current tone contract you never write
current tone contract you never write this extra Ledger entry but that writes
this extra Ledger entry but that writes a specific flag but I changed the cap to
a specific flag but I changed the cap to write the authorized flag so every
write the authorized flag so every balance will have a new entry that says
balance will have a new entry that says authorized so which is not necessary uh
authorized so which is not necessary uh by default for
by default for non-auth required assets I have an idea
non-auth required assets I have an idea to fix this you know you can tie the
to fix this you know you can tie the balance and this flag in a single Ledger
balance and this flag in a single Ledger entry
entry um but it just it just adds some
um but it just it just adds some complexity but I I but I think we do
complexity but I I but I think we do need to either not allow author required
need to either not allow author required Assets in sorbon or
Assets in sorbon or you know uh allow them using using a
you know uh allow them using using a mechanism like this
mechanism like this um so I I feel like if you want to allow
um so I I feel like if you want to allow author required that's a story about
author required that's a story about like this is probably the best or
like this is probably the best or something similar is the best thing we
something similar is the best thing we can do it I said just to be on the same
can do it I said just to be on the same page this means we effectively increase
page this means we effectively increase the complexity of the these rap token
the complexity of the these rap token contracts but the standard token
contracts but the standard token contract that you can still
contract that you can still um you know like issue uh that's pure
um you know like issue uh that's pure sorobond does it also inherit these
sorobond does it also inherit these complexities
complexities um I think we can we can do it in a way
um I think we can we can do it in a way where it doesn't right like it if
where it doesn't right like it if because you can if you can tell that
because you can if you can tell that it's a wrap token contract and in that
it's a wrap token contract and in that case then you can
case then you can uh check the issuer and check them out
uh check the issuer and check them out the required but if if it's not a
the required but if if it's not a wrapped token then you can ignore all of
wrapped token then you can ignore all of this right
this right and from a contract developer's
and from a contract developer's perspective that wants to interact uh
perspective that wants to interact uh from their perspective it's just the
from their perspective it's just the standard like are we changing the
standard like are we changing the standard token interface
standard token interface um or from their perspective it's just
um or from their perspective it's just another erc20 like standard token
another erc20 like standard token um implementer
uh the interface shouldn't have to change maybe the semantics around
change maybe the semantics around authorization the authorization would I
authorization the authorization would I think we can do it in a way where it
think we can do it in a way where it wouldn't it would be transparent to uh
wouldn't it would be transparent to uh soroban tokens
that make sense
yes
one thing I'll just say quickly is that um
um you know in today's uh today on the
you know in today's uh today on the network the assets that use author
network the assets that use author required they
required they um there are a lot of account holders
um there are a lot of account holders but we are seeing organizations that are
but we are seeing organizations that are looking to have health required assets
looking to have health required assets be used on soar bomb balls so used by a
be used on soar bomb balls so used by a fairly large audience so I would
fairly large audience so I would I don't know if you know going forward
I don't know if you know going forward with an approach where
with an approach where arth required assets just simply aren't
arth required assets just simply aren't usable on sorbon is is I mean we could
usable on sorbon is is I mean we could do it
do it um but it's going to cut off some some
um but it's going to cut off some some use cases or for organizations that
use cases or for organizations that um you know from a Regulatory Compliance
um you know from a Regulatory Compliance perspective like need to have uh that
perspective like need to have uh that this requirement kyc like holders before
this requirement kyc like holders before holding their asset
so Jake just to be on the same page like you're saying that there is a group of
you're saying that there is a group of issuers that is growing and is
issuers that is growing and is um author required or planning to issue
um author required or planning to issue author card assets
author card assets um and out of this group there is a
um and out of this group there is a non-trivial
non-trivial uh
uh subgroup that is interested in having
subgroup that is interested in having their assets
their assets um
um available and and uh for like Defiance
available and and uh for like Defiance Orban exactly yeah we have a partner
Orban exactly yeah we have a partner today that's looking to
today that's looking to um you know participate in uh like amms
um you know participate in uh like amms and
and um and other like deep iconstructs on
um and other like deep iconstructs on sorbon but the asset they would like to
sorbon but the asset they would like to to use
to use um they are planning on using author
um they are planning on using author required
okay one one aspect of this which I think is a good thing but it's good to
think is a good thing but it's good to know is if you go to the first approach
know is if you go to the first approach I mentioned the issuer will need to
I mentioned the issuer will need to approve any address and any any
approve any address and any any identifier on soroban that wants to
identifier on soroban that wants to accept the balance so even if it's like
accept the balance so even if it's like a liquidity pool the issuer must uh you
a liquidity pool the issuer must uh you know approve that that liquidity pool's
know approve that that liquidity pool's address in the token contract
yeah understood I think that's actually exactly what they're looking for yeah
there are a couple questions in the live chat too I don't know if you want to
chat too I don't know if you want to take a look at them sit or you want me
take a look at them sit or you want me to just read them out
to just read them out let's see
so where's uh the uh yeah I well one is oh yeah yeah
and then if you look below that there's some there's three there's a yeah two
some there's three there's a yeah two questions so for Quebec
questions so for Quebec sorry tomorrow do you wanna go
sorry tomorrow do you wanna go yep
yep okay uh clawback is uh
okay uh clawback is uh I think it's it's something we wanted to
I think it's it's something we wanted to support because it's supported on the uh
support because it's supported on the uh the classic side and right if you have a
the classic side and right if you have a an asset that is clawbackable
an asset that is clawbackable uh on classic and you move it over to
uh on classic and you move it over to sorbon then you know it's a control you
sorbon then you know it's a control you want to give the issue and it can be it
want to give the issue and it can be it can be disabled
can be disabled um I I do agree that quadak versus Burns
um I I do agree that quadak versus Burns is a little confusing we don't actually
is a little confusing we don't actually like the cap doesn't specify a burn in
like the cap doesn't specify a burn in the ERC 20 cents
the ERC 20 cents um and maybe it should uh right now
um and maybe it should uh right now I think that like what you could do is
I think that like what you could do is send to a zero u25519 address but maybe
send to a zero u25519 address but maybe that's not sufficient
that's not sufficient um but I agree maybe we can uh I can
um but I agree maybe we can uh I can think about like naming differences
think about like naming differences there a little more
there a little more um so for the
um so for the so vermouth's question for the decimals
so vermouth's question for the decimals uh
uh I agree so yeah the cap is actually
I agree so yeah the cap is actually missed I believe it's missing decimals
missed I believe it's missing decimals for the
for the the non-wrapped case
the non-wrapped case um and the idea there uh was that you
um and the idea there uh was that you know you the user could specify whatever
know you the user could specify whatever whatever they want but we should specify
whatever they want but we should specify uh a standard and I don't we haven't
uh a standard and I don't we haven't discussed that yet this still depends on
discussed that yet this still depends on the discussion that you know we moved
the discussion that you know we moved from big into U1 128 but I think there's
from big into U1 128 but I think there's still some uh
still some uh discussions have to go on there with
discussions have to go on there with what we think a default decimal should
what we think a default decimal should be
um so
maybe we can start by is there anyone that objects to u128 as the as a
that objects to u128 as the as a standard token contract
standard token contract um
um uh number type
okay going gone okay and so that's moot's next question
okay and so that's moot's next question for the auth required Solutions when we
for the auth required Solutions when we run into weird situations where only
run into weird situations where only Stellar accounts can participate or
Stellar accounts can participate or other non-auth required built-in tokens
other non-auth required built-in tokens support Stellar accounts contracts and
support Stellar accounts contracts and basic 825519 keys
basic 825519 keys I
I I can't think of a reason why this would
I can't think of a reason why this would happen off the top of my head uh there's
happen off the top of my head uh there's no
no difference
you know this author required mechanism that I mentioned and a identifier that
that I mentioned and a identifier that is
is is the authorized so I'm not I can't
is the authorized so I'm not I can't think of uh an example like this if you
think of uh an example like this if you have one let me know and I can
have one let me know and I can think about that
think about that uh what about looking at wrapped smart
uh what about looking at wrapped smart contract as an on off ramp I'm not sure
contract as an on off ramp I'm not sure uh what that what that means
okay yeah
yeah Lee
yeah I'm just thinking about the term callback and and you know if that is a
callback and and you know if that is a problematic term I mean it's I feel like
problematic term I mean it's I feel like the term is understood in other
the term is understood in other Financial
Financial uh ecosystems um but maybe yeah if it if
uh ecosystems um but maybe yeah if it if it's not a good term to be using sort of
it's not a good term to be using sort of going forward in a in a blockchain world
going forward in a in a blockchain world um
here would it be termed because do you think if if we said that the admin could
think if if we said that the admin could do a transfer from one from any account
do a transfer from one from any account to any account like it's sort of the
to any account like it's sort of the same thing as clawback
same thing as clawback um and it's sort of maybe bad to do that
um and it's sort of maybe bad to do that because we're overloading an operation
because we're overloading an operation that can suddenly do
that can suddenly do something that might be surprising
something that might be surprising um yeah I'm one way to like try to
um yeah I'm one way to like try to eliminate that term without needing to
eliminate that term without needing to replace it
replace it yeah I mean that sounds
yeah I mean that sounds um like a little more complex right
um like a little more complex right um it's not even the same thing because
um it's not even the same thing because in club in the cloud back the balance
in club in the cloud back the balance gets burned right which is how it works
gets burned right which is how it works on classic and currently in the token
on classic and currently in the token contract
contract um in your example it wouldn't get
um in your example it wouldn't get burned right it would get sent to
burned right it would get sent to another address I guess you could send
another address I guess you could send it to the zero eighty two five five one
it to the zero eighty two five five one nine key
nine key um I I think this is something we should
um I I think this is something we should discuss because to me you know clawback
discuss because to me you know clawback already exists on Stellar right so and
already exists on Stellar right so and it works
it works almost the same on sorbon so it made
almost the same on sorbon so it made sense to me to to change the name but uh
sense to me to to change the name but uh if enough people it like I think it's
if enough people it like I think it's something we should discuss
something we should discuss yeah I'm yeah I'm not I personally think
yeah I'm yeah I'm not I personally think clawback's probably fine because we
clawback's probably fine because we already have that definition and I think
already have that definition and I think it sounds like the folks who are
it sounds like the folks who are planning to use
planning to use um this today already understand what it
um this today already understand what it means
means um
um uh sorry I have a bit of a question on a
uh sorry I have a bit of a question on a tangent to why you just mentioned you
tangent to why you just mentioned you said that
said that uh so callback
uh so callback what so on Stella if you transfer to the
what so on Stella if you transfer to the issuer you're essentially burning
issuer you're essentially burning because the answer disappears because
because the answer disappears because the issue can't hold the balance of the
the issue can't hold the balance of the asset the issue um what happens if you
asset the issue um what happens if you transfer to the admin I get the or
transfer to the admin I get the or transferred to the issuer
transferred to the issuer um on the sorbin
um on the sorbin ation
ation it doesn't get burnt it just it updates
it doesn't get burnt it just it updates the issue with balance like the issue or
the issue with balance like the issue or the admin account doesn't have
the admin account doesn't have any exception when it comes to like
any exception when it comes to like transfers or anything like that
big other things
so
authorized trust and inheritance classic in case you need a slower account detain
authorized flag so that that is how it works on classic like uh you need the
works on classic like uh you need the trust line to to get authorized by the
trust line to to get authorized by the issuer
issuer um and on sorbon we would imitate the
um and on sorbon we would imitate the same at the the admin or the the admin
same at the the admin or the the admin on sorbond would need to explicitly
on sorbond would need to explicitly authorize
authorize on sorobon we'll have we have this
on sorobon we'll have we have this method called authorize and we'll
method called authorize and we'll authorize that balance
um does that answer your question oops
okay
and I the the naming there like maybe you need to think about that
like maybe you need to think about that some more about the fact that there's
some more about the fact that there's you know you have you can authorize it
you know you have you can authorize it on classic I mean also authorize on
on classic I mean also authorize on sorbond but server authorization doesn't
sorbond but server authorization doesn't work the same like it's much simpler
work the same like it's much simpler than
than design
could you elaborate what's the differences just so we're all clear on
differences just so we're all clear on that uh yeah so you know in classic you
that uh yeah so you know in classic you can uh there's a lot of different levels
can uh there's a lot of different levels of authorization uh that's what I mean
of authorization uh that's what I mean you can have uh you know fully
you can have uh you know fully authorized through the authorized you
authorized through the authorized you can be uh
can be uh you can authorize to maintain
you can authorize to maintain liabilities right maintain offers and
liabilities right maintain offers and liquidity pool uh deposits but you can't
liquidity pool uh deposits but you can't do anything with your balance
do anything with your balance and I believe there's also a flag that
and I believe there's also a flag that says you can actually cloud back from
says you can actually cloud back from the
the trust line uh and that flag is
trust line uh and that flag is maintained
maintained currently in the proposal in soroban
currently in the proposal in soroban like the clawback flag but it's at the
like the clawback flag but it's at the contract level and not at a balanced
contract level and not at a balanced level uh because my the thought process
level uh because my the thought process was I don't think it needs to be at the
was I don't think it needs to be at the balance level and it would add a lot
balance level and it would add a lot more complexity
more complexity um but yeah those are the differences
all right any uh any other questions any concerns
do you have the answers that you need to move forward
I believe I do uh so before the author choir uh solution I think I I need to
choir uh solution I think I I need to rework what I have a little bits to make
rework what I have a little bits to make sure that the
um the non-wrap scenario doesn't doesn't change or get any worse
change or get any worse um
um um other than that it doesn't sound like
um other than that it doesn't sound like oh that and I need I should like naming
oh that and I need I should like naming right looking at burnt versus clawback
right looking at burnt versus clawback in the ecosystem
in the ecosystem uh yeah about other than those two
uh yeah about other than those two things I don't think there's anything
things I don't think there's anything else
else I need to look at
well I think there is maybe like a symmetry uh question there right like uh
symmetry uh question there right like uh that I I was just thinking about that is
that I I was just thinking about that is when I think of the building token
when I think of the building token contract versus the uh more generic uh
contract versus the uh more generic uh interface right that we are exposing
interface right that we are exposing that people can use when they
that people can use when they uh implement the the contract
isn't there like um if we have like this auth required thing right like it
auth required thing right like it basically limits
basically limits the the the way you can
the the the way you can um do payments right uh from the outside
um do payments right uh from the outside so like is
so like is is that pointing to like a
is that pointing to like a I don't know like having um
I don't know like having um it's basically an implicit
it's basically an implicit um uh like uh
um uh like uh like yeah like hook you know I know the
like yeah like hook you know I know the original cap had like this uh like
original cap had like this uh like section on cooks are evil you know we
section on cooks are evil you know we should never do that but uh at the same
should never do that but uh at the same time this looks like actually like a
time this looks like actually like a hook to me uh that happens to be a
hook to me uh that happens to be a classic hook
classic hook uh and I'm just wondering like when we
uh and I'm just wondering like when we say also that uh people that are that
say also that uh people that are that are today
are today um looking at implementing Earth
um looking at implementing Earth required assets want to
required assets want to move uh some of the functionality into
move uh some of the functionality into soroban
soroban are they really going to be satisfied
are they really going to be satisfied with those limited semantics as opposed
with those limited semantics as opposed to I know like a lot of the the things
to I know like a lot of the the things that people were asking in the past
that people were asking in the past around programmatic you know being able
around programmatic you know being able to basically control the flow of assets
to basically control the flow of assets was hey I want to put limits you know on
was hey I want to put limits you know on uh on transaction uh on transactions
uh on transaction uh on transactions like you know you can only move ten
like you know you can only move ten thousand dollars a day or whatever right
thousand dollars a day or whatever right like things like that
like things like that so yeah wondering about that uh where
so yeah wondering about that uh where does that fit in this picture
the you know the first requirement uh at least I was that I was following is that
least I was that I was following is that you you'd like to be able to support
you you'd like to be able to support anything that can happen on classic
anything that can happen on classic uh in soroban right in the bold and tone
uh in soroban right in the bold and tone contract which is the you know the goal
contract which is the you know the goal of adding support throughout the
of adding support throughout the Acquired and clawback
Acquired and clawback um what you're saying is an interesting
um what you're saying is an interesting idea uh adding hooks to soak admin's uh
idea uh adding hooks to soak admin's uh can customize what happens uh but one
can customize what happens uh but one you know one concern there is
you know one concern there is you would you would end up executing
you would you would end up executing like the the uh one of the nice things
like the the uh one of the nice things with the built-in tone contract is built
with the built-in tone contract is built in right it doesn't execute wasn't but
in right it doesn't execute wasn't but if you have these hooks they would be in
if you have these hooks they would be in wasm right so you would you take the
wasm right so you would you take the performance set
performance set um and in that case I I don't know you
um and in that case I I don't know you could argue that
could argue that they should you should be using a
they should you should be using a different tone contract altogether like
different tone contract altogether like one that just adheres to the interface
one that just adheres to the interface uh do you agree on that
uh do you agree on that you mean like yeah yeah I guess like as
you mean like yeah yeah I guess like as soon as you have hooks you can't do like
soon as you have hooks you can't do like a classic payment for example because
a classic payment for example because you're bypassing the hook is that what
you're bypassing the hook is that what you're talking about
you're talking about I'm I'm not sure what you mean by that
I'm I'm not sure what you mean by that I'm saying that if you add a hook the
I'm saying that if you add a hook the hook would be in wasn't right
hook would be in wasn't right like you've called into another contract
like you've called into another contract yeah so for the built-in yeah I guess
yeah so for the built-in yeah I guess for like the uh default Behavior you
for like the uh default Behavior you would yeah he would just call the
would yeah he would just call the built-in token contract that would have
built-in token contract that would have a default implementation right to
a default implementation right to implement those uh what required type of
implement those uh what required type of semantics but
semantics but I could see
I could see like the need for maybe like final
like the need for maybe like final control uh in general and uh
control uh in general and uh oh the Fire Control that we would
oh the Fire Control that we would provide later on
provide later on or that like anything issuers would want
or that like anything issuers would want to uh yeah to have
to uh yeah to have yeah
yeah I guess maybe those end up just being
I guess maybe those end up just being like separate you know they are not
like separate you know they are not using the built-in token contract at
using the built-in token contract at that point so that's kind of what I'm
that point so that's kind of what I'm trying to wonder I'm wondering about is
trying to wonder I'm wondering about is like those use cases without required
like those use cases without required Assets in suraban
Assets in suraban they are not people are not going to be
they are not people are not going to be able to actually implement
able to actually implement I think the type of things that I'm
I think the type of things that I'm looking after that is like uh like I
looking after that is like uh like I said like uh people asked before the the
said like uh people asked before the the feature requests are on the the hooks
feature requests are on the the hooks were things like uh maximum our
were things like uh maximum our conditions on the transaction right like
conditions on the transaction right like uh uh not just it was not just a flag it
uh uh not just it was not just a flag it was basically like you know open-ended
was basically like you know open-ended type of conditions
type of conditions and then use the built-in token contract
and then use the built-in token contract which may be okay but you know I then
which may be okay but you know I then I'm kind of questioning the
I'm kind of questioning the are you talking about uh from the
are you talking about uh from the perspective on net new issuers or from
perspective on net new issuers or from the perspective of existing issuers that
the perspective of existing issuers that want to introduce
want to introduce um new constraints or like new yeah
um new constraints or like new yeah that's kind of I'm just wondering like
that's kind of I'm just wondering like like the people that have like those uh
like the people that have like those uh like uh as um out required assets
like uh as um out required assets if they think that they can basically
if they think that they can basically over time add more conditions this is
over time add more conditions this is actually not going to work
right you got it so to some extent I hear like a question to Jake if it's
hear like a question to Jake if it's still here which is
still here which is uh you know these new issuers that are
uh you know these new issuers that are coming on board and are interesting and
coming on board and are interesting and auth required uh assets maybe the
auth required uh assets maybe the solution for them
solution for them is to actually issue a custom contract
is to actually issue a custom contract on soroban rather than
on soroban rather than an off-acquired acid on classic and kind
an off-acquired acid on classic and kind of like trying to constrain it to be
of like trying to constrain it to be what they want it to be
yeah we we've talked about you know something similar with like uh regulated
something similar with like uh regulated assets assets that need much more
assets assets that need much more defined Grant control
defined Grant control um and in those cases I think it makes
um and in those cases I think it makes sense to to use a new token contract
sense to to use a new token contract all right the middle to the built-in
all right the middle to the built-in tone contract can't do everything right
tone contract can't do everything right and I don't think adding these I don't
and I don't think adding these I don't think adding these hooks is a good idea
think adding these hooks is a good idea into the built-in token contract
into the built-in token contract um yeah just uh my opinion
yeah I think their position should be that if you want these type of uh
that if you want these type of uh conditions and restraints you should
conditions and restraints you should definitely deploy your own
definitely deploy your own um contract that adheres to the standard
um contract that adheres to the standard token interface you know assembly that
token interface you know assembly that we're seeing in ethereum and other
we're seeing in ethereum and other ecosystems
okay so let me um you know said I think we're we're at
um you know said I think we're we're at a relatively good place with this with
a relatively good place with this with this cap
this cap um I do think there's a
um I do think there's a there's like this parallel discussion
there's like this parallel discussion that probably hasn't matured to bringing
that probably hasn't matured to bringing it up right now on
it up right now on uh you know this versus like a more
uh you know this versus like a more discussions uh you know we we abandoned
discussions uh you know we we abandoned a few months ago to make progress but we
a few months ago to make progress but we need to go back to in terms of
need to go back to in terms of um you know single balance versus two
um you know single balance versus two balance approach
balance approach um but I think we need to have a better
um but I think we need to have a better understanding of what the
understanding of what the possibilities are there
possibilities are there uh before we can actually
uh before we can actually make like a
make like a um you know like the go-ahead decision
um you know like the go-ahead decision with regards to this specific uh cap
with regards to this specific uh cap yeah I agree
anything else anyone wants to discuss or are we done for the day
okay cool I think
we might be done
um I'm just checking the live chat to see if there are any unanswered
see if there are any unanswered questions there's one more from moods
questions there's one more from moods which is in the event issuers are pushed
which is in the event issuers are pushed to write a custom token contract would
to write a custom token contract would there be any core support to migrate
there be any core support to migrate between a classic slash custom token
between a classic slash custom token I would I would say no uh
I would I would say no uh that's an interesting question but my
that's an interesting question but my intuition would be that you know you're
intuition would be that you know you're trying to do something that
trying to do something that uh
uh you know it isn't even supported in
you know it isn't even supported in classic
classic so it makes sense to be a separate token
so it makes sense to be a separate token uh but that's something that we need to
uh but that's something that we need to think about more yeah I haven't thought
think about more yeah I haven't thought much about how uh you know how these
much about how uh you know how these custom
custom uh token contracts would work
and so this isn't and uh responds to mooch's question on how
responds to mooch's question on how these uh if there would be core support
these uh if there would be core support between
between class and custom tokens
yeah I think this is an interesting question because uh with the built-in
question because uh with the built-in contract that we have now uh you there
contract that we have now uh you there is a swap essentially a swap capability
is a swap essentially a swap capability you have the import export
you have the import export functions which you know allow you to
functions which you know allow you to essentially swap
essentially swap a token in classic with one in sorbon
a token in classic with one in sorbon and if we are if the story that we're
and if we are if the story that we're developing
developing um is that if you want to you know be
um is that if you want to you know be able to build
able to build um
um a custom token that provides all these
a custom token that provides all these custom auth auth required type
custom auth auth required type capabilities
capabilities um I think we do need to have some sort
um I think we do need to have some sort of story for how do you replicate that
of story for how do you replicate that import export how do you swap something
import export how do you swap something that's on classic with something that is
that's on classic with something that is over on Sovereign so that
over on Sovereign so that um because I can imagine that issuers
um because I can imagine that issuers even if they want that more custom
even if they want that more custom capability on sarban they probably still
capability on sarban they probably still want to get access to things like the
want to get access to things like the things on classic like they probably
things on classic like they probably don't want to be siled into only the
don't want to be siled into only the sorrow and ecosystem
sorrow and ecosystem yeah that's a good point
and without something without some sort of swap capability and without the
of swap capability and without the ability to
ability to because we're not we're not going to
because we're not we're not going to allow classic operations and solvent
allow classic operations and solvent operations to run in the same
operations to run in the same transaction I think we're talking about
transaction I think we're talking about some sort of off-chain
some sort of off-chain swap capability which sort of it's not
swap capability which sort of it's not great
yeah this is something to think about like we you know you and I'm not sure
like we you know you and I'm not sure how this would work but you could offer
how this would work but you could offer uh import export big host functions but
uh import export big host functions but that
that that doesn't sound like a good idea to
that doesn't sound like a good idea to me
me but uh
but uh or do it off chain as like you mentioned
or do it off chain as like you mentioned um yeah it's something to think about
any other thoughts
okay it looks like there's on
on one new one in the live chat from
one new one in the live chat from Demetrio Stellar um why not just have
Demetrio Stellar um why not just have the same sort of one-to-one swap between
the same sort of one-to-one swap between the rap classic asset token and the new
the rap classic asset token and the new token
token not the best ux but it's doable right
not the best ux but it's doable right now
uh I I think you'd have I I gotta think about this you might have issues with
about this you might have issues with like how would you do a lot like that
like how would you do a lot like that would have to exist as a
would have to exist as a wait no I'm not I'm not sure how if that
wait no I'm not I'm not sure how if that would work like you would have to call
would work like you would have to call import export
import export uh and like and like if I write a
uh and like and like if I write a contract right now Custom Contract I
contract right now Custom Contract I wouldn't be able to call that right
wouldn't be able to call that right well I think the the issuer there would
well I think the the issuer there would be the contract right
um kind of uh yeah yeah
yeah yeah right so you don't actually need special
right so you don't actually need special anything it just uh happens that yeah
anything it just uh happens that yeah like the
like the that that's true you would have complete
that that's true you would have complete control over it well it's yeah complete
control over it well it's yeah complete control now because you can get the
control now because you can get the authorized but yeah that's true
okay yeah let me let me think about this
okay it feels like we're sort of winding down here
down here um so I I think we're done for the day
um so I I think we're done for the day um thanks Sid for for putting this out
um thanks Sid for for putting this out there thanks for answering the questions
there thanks for answering the questions thanks for thinking about it and to
thanks for thinking about it and to everyone else
everyone else um I realized that today's protocol
um I realized that today's protocol discussion was sort of ad hoc and popped
discussion was sort of ad hoc and popped out of nowhere uh next year or after
out of nowhere uh next year or after Thanksgiving as as we start to have
Thanksgiving as as we start to have these meetings I'll try to be better
these meetings I'll try to be better about just setting them up more in
about just setting them up more in advance
advance um and just being a little bit more
um and just being a little bit more making people a little bit more aware of
making people a little bit more aware of what we're doing what we're talking
what we're doing what we're talking about so that um everyone can sort of
about so that um everyone can sort of get a bit of context for the discussion
get a bit of context for the discussion starts but for today
starts but for today um again if you want to sort of keep up
um again if you want to sort of keep up with these discussions join the Stellar
with these discussions join the Stellar Dev mailing list if you want to read
Dev mailing list if you want to read this particular cap it's in the cap
this particular cap it's in the cap repository which you can find on GitHub
repository which you can find on GitHub this is Cap 4606 the smart contract
this is Cap 4606 the smart contract standardized asset
standardized asset and with that I will say goodbye to all
and with that I will say goodbye to all of you thanks